### 1. Explain all the CSS positions(static, fixed, sticky, relative, absolute) with one code example each.

### Ans.

- Static:

  - The static position is the default position for an element, where it follows the normal document flow. Elements with static positioning are not affected by the top, bottom, left, or right properties.

```
 .box {
        position: static;
        width: 200px;
        height: 200px;
        background-color: red;
    }
```

- Fixed:
  - The fixed position positions an element relative to the viewport, meaning it stays in the same position even when the page is scrolled. It is commonly used to create elements that should remain fixed.

```
.navbar {
        position: fixed;
        top: 0;
        left: 0;
        background-color: black;
        color: white;
        padding: 10px;
    }
```

- Sticky:
  - The sticky position is a combination of relative and fixed positioning.
  - It positions an element based on the user's scroll position. Initially, it behaves like a relative positioned element, but as the user scrolls to a specified threshold, it becomes fixed.

```
.header {
       position: sticky;
       top: 0;
       background-color: blue;
       color: white;
       padding: 10px;
   }
```

- Relative:
  - The relative position positions an element relative to its normal position.
  - It allows you to use additional positioning properties like top, bottom, left, and right to offset the element from its original position.

```
.box {
        width: 200px;
        height: 200px;
        background-color: yellow;
        position: relative;
        left: 50px;
        top: 50px;
    }
```

- Absolute:

  - The absolute position removes an element from the normal document flow and positions it relative to its nearest positioned ancestor.
  - If there is no positioned ancestor, it positions the element relative to the initial containing block.

  ```
  .parent {
        position: relative;
        width: 400px;
        height: 200px;
        background-color: lightgreen;
    }

    .child {
        position: absolute;
        top: 50px;
        left: 50px;
        width: 200px;
        height: 100px;
        background-color: orange;
    }
  ```
